( peaceful theme playing)
Take them down!
(gasps)
Hyah!
MEN:
Kahlan!
(gasps)
( exciting theme playing)
FANE:
Shoot her!
(gasps)
( slow theme playing)
Hold on. Dennee!
Stay with me!
We're almost there!
( violin theme playing)
(groans)
Hyah!
KAHLAN:
Dennee!
( dramatic theme playing)
(panting)
Dennee.
(breathing heavily)
Take it.
Take the Book.
This is more important than me.
You know that.
Please. Kahlan.
(sniffs)
May the Spirits protect you.
little sister.
Kahlan.
(horse whinnies)
Go.
(sobs)
(kiss)
(sniffs)
(gasps)
( dramatic theme playing)
MEN:
Hyah!
(panting)
(horses whinny)
FANE:
You've reached
the Boundary. Confessor.
There is nowhere left to run.
(horses whinny)
Steady.
MAN:
Steady. boy.
(whinnies)
She's got magic!
Ride to the garrison
at Kaldrith.
Send word to Lord Rahl:
The Confessor has broken
through the Boundary.
Yes. sir.
You three are coming with me.
MAN:
But sir...
( suspenseful theme playing)
( drum theme playing)
(hammer thumping)
BOY:
Hi. Richard.
Jared.
You're just in time.
For what?
You can be the first to cross.
Don't worry. It's safe.
(moos)
Oh. it's not me that's scared.
It's... It's Lanie.
Of course.
(moos)
Smart cow.
Never cross a bridge
that hasn't been tested.
Come on. boy.
I don't think Lanie
has anything to worry about.
Thanks. Richard.
Flynn. come.
(dog barks)
Hungry. boy?
Yeah. me too.
Come on.
(dog barks)
( vocal theme playing)
(grunts)
(panting)
Oh!
(gasps)
Stay back.
Shoot her.
(grunts)
Leave her alone.
You're making a mistake. boy.
This girl is dangerous.
Four men against one woman?
I think she's the one in danger.
You don't understand
what you're talking about.
And this is not your fight.
So be smart
and go home.
I'm not going anywhere.
(grunts)
FANE:
Easy.
Do not let her grasp you.
(grunting)
( vocal theme playing)
(men grunting. swords clanging)
Ah!
It's over for you. Confessor.
(both grunting)
(screaming)
(grunting)
(fane yells)
(panting)
(gasps)
(grunts)
( bell theme playing)
Your hand is bleeding.
Let me take you to my father's.
We can dress the wound.
Did I do something wrong?
No.
I'm just...
not used to people touching me.
I'm sorry.
It's all right.
I have to go.
Where?
There's someone I need to find.
Who? Maybe I
can help you.
Don't worry about me.
I can take care of myself.
Why were these men chasing you?
You always ask
this many questions?
I just saved your life.
The least you could do
is tell me what happened.
Actually. I saved yours.
When you touched that man.
what did you do to him?
Hey.
You want to know
what I did to that man?
Try and follow me
and you'll find out.
(panting)
( suspenseful theme playing)
Ah!
( dramatic theme playing)
(footsteps approaching)
Drop the weapons.
I said drop them.
On whose authority?
The Councilor's Guards.
which would be me.
and them.
(weapons thud)
Now. tell me what happened here.
This Councilor you guard.
is he the ruler
of this province?
He is.
Then I will tell
my story to him.
My name is Ranssyn Fane.
a commander
of the D'Haran Forces.
D'Hara?
But that's...
I have come from the Midlands.
What other fairy-tales
do you have to tell us?
Forgive our skepticism.
but no one's
crossed the Boundary
in hundreds of years.
The woman I'm
pursuing found a way.
How?
She is a witch.
( suspenseful theme playing)
Come on. Shar.
Come on.
Okay.
There we go.
There.
(groans)
( suspenseful theme playing)
( flute theme playing)
GEORGE:
You're finished. Richard.
I've got you beat in two moves.
RICHARD: Dad...
Come on.
let's get the bloodbath
over with. so we can eat.
Dad.
Son.
What is it?
What's happened?
FANE:
Her magic is more powerful
than you could possibly imagine.
She used it to cross
into your territory.
And she had help.
From someone on this side
of the Boundary.
He was wearing this.
You recognize it.
It belongs to my brother.
RICHARD:
A poison vine
I've never seen before.
that glowing thing in her hand.
what she did to that
man who attacked her.
it was magic. wasn't it?
Hm.
There's no magic
this side of the Boundary.
She and these men.
they're from the Midlands.
That can't be right.
I was a fool to think
this day would never come.
What day?
Richard.
you know that I love you.
Dad. of course.
(horse whinnies outside)
(men shouting outside)
(horses galloping)
( dramatic theme playing)
Dad. that's him. That's the guy
who fell off the cliff.
You have to leave. Now.
Out the back
before they get here.
Michael and Chase are with him.
They can help.
Go.
Where?
Blackthorn Hill. Find Zedd.
That crazy old man?
Zedd will explain everything.
He talks to his chickens. Why?
Tell him I sent you.
He'll know why. Just go.
I'll meet you there
as soon as I can.
Dad...
Richard. you have to go.
Now.
( dramatic theme playing)
(pounding on door)
I haven't seen him
since breakfast time.
He said he was gonna
work on the new bridge.
Are you sure he didn't
come home during the day.
uh. maybe while you were
out gathering firewood?
I haven't left the house.
MICHAEL:
Take Commander Fane
and find him.
If Richard's in
trouble. I want to help.
If we all follow
a different trail...
Better if you stay here.
He could still come back.
and he may be frightened.
Or worse.
What do you mean?
The witch has the power
to put him under her control.
and if she does.
he's gonna need his father here
to try and talk
some sense to him.
You should leave some of your
men. in case it goes badly.
MICHAEL:
Chase. post two men outside.
Take the rest down
to the South Bridge.
(door opens)
What is it?
Michael. why are you
so quick to believe
a stranger from the Midlands?
Because Richard does
things without thinking.
He always has.
since he was a little boy.
And you've always protected him.
He's my son.
He's your brother.
Please. Michael.
make sure he doesn't get hurt.
Stay here. If he comes
back. bring him to me.
We'll find out
what really happened.
(footsteps receding)
ZEDD:
It's a bad omen. Clara.
(coos)
A could in the shape of
a horn from the far east.
I'm betting a month of
suppers it'll bring no good
before the sun comes up.
(Clara clucks)
Oh. no. no. no.
Don't worry. Clara.
Supper will never be you.
KAHLAN:
I need your help. Wizard.
Sorry. uh.
I'm as deaf as a peach
and as naked as a baby bird.
What did you say?
I asked the Great Wizard
Zeddicus Zu'l Zorander
for his assistance.
No.
I think you have me confused
with somebody else.
There's no confusion.
I had help finding you.
Well. it was good
while it lasted.
Nice quiet couple of decades.
And now time is up.
Bring me to the Seeker.
(horse approaching)
( exciting theme playing)
(breathing heavily)
RICHARD:
You.
( dramatic theme playing)
(chanting in ancient tongue)
(Richard breathing heavily)
(panting)
(grunts)
(Zedd yells)
(gasping)
(panting)
(Richard groans)
His fever's broken.
Now take me to the Seeker.
He's here.
Him?
But... But he's... What?
Not good enough?
You wanted a
Seeker. there he is.
If he's not up to your standard.
well. that's fine by me.
Find yourself another.
RICHARD:
Seeker?
What are you talking about?
You never told him?
You were supposed to train him.
Prepare him.
What have you been doing
for the last 20 years?
Letting him catch worms.
Steal apples.
Skin his knees.
Find out what makes
his heart beat faster.
My sister gave her life
to make sure that I got here.
to make sure that I put
the Book in the Seeker's hands.
and he's catching worms?
Never knew a great man
who didn't have
dirt under his nails.
And while he's getting
his nails dirty.
did it ever occur to you to
give him the slightest inkling
that he is the first true Seeker
in the last thousand years?
He has a destiny.
Who are you to
decide a man's destiny?
It's not me.
It's the Prophecy.
Prophecy be damned!
I averted the Prophecy
when I brought him here.
Until you opened up a nice
little door in the Boundary
and said. "Right
this way to the Seeker.
ladies and gentlemen."
RICHARD:
Stop.
What are you talking about?
And what's a Seeker?
If you were so sure
you averted the Prophecy.
that he was gonna live
a nice. peaceful life.
why did you stay near
him all these years?
Tell him the truth.
Tell him who he is.
(sighs)
First you need to know
about a man named Darken Rahl.
if he is a man. and not
some twisted wraith of evil
brought forth
from the underworld
to shatter the
dreams of humankind.
Twenty-three years ago. a great
prophet spoke on his deathbed
of the birth of a true Seeker.
A child whose destiny would
be to seek out and kill
the greatest evil of all:
Darken Rahl.
(woman yelling)
And with his last breath.
the prophet named the town
in which the child
had been born.
(men yelling)
Rahl sent his assassins.
(woman screaming)
(men grunting)
(woman screams)
ZEDD:
And in one night.
they murdered every first-born
son in Brennidon...
(screaming)
save one.
(horse whinnying)
Your mother gave birth
in the madness of the massacre.
She was young.
She was weak.
She was still alive
when I took you
from her arms.
(crying)
She kissed you. blessed you.
My mother died when I was 10.
Here. In Hartland.
The woman you
knew as your mother
raised you and loved you
as if you were her own.
but she did not
give birth to you.
I crossed the Boundary
at night. unseen.
with you in my arms.
(thunder rumbling)
For weeks I watched. listened.
read the clouds.
and came to know
that in all the world
there was no one kinder
than George and Mary Cypher.
I told them your story.
and they took you
into their home.
and into their hearts.
And if I live to be
a thousand years old.
I'll never make a wiser choice
than picking them for the job.
RICHARD:
So...
according to this fantasy.
who's my real father?
I don't know.
And if you knew
my parents so well.
why didn't I ever
see you with them?
Why haven't you talked to me?
I kept myself apart.
close enough to keep watch
over you. but far enough away
so that if Darken Rahl
ever found his way to me.
I wouldn't be a blazing arrow
pointing the way to you.
Apparently. that's
what Confessors are for.
Confessors?
An ancient order of women
sworn to find the truth.
no matter how hard
people may try to hide it.
And if a Seeker should arise.
to protect him with her life.
My name is Kahlan.
I'm sorry for
threatening you today.
You did save my life.
I came here to bring you this.
RICHARD:
A book?
Not just any book.
It's The Book
of Counted Shadows.
It was written in a time
before remembering.
For a thousand years.
it's been kept safe
in the Wizard's Keep.
in Aydindril.
But a month ago
the armies of Darken Rahl
broke through our last defenses
in an attempt to steal it.
Why?
Because the Book contains
the secrets of power.
KAHLAN:
And if Darken Rahl gets it.
he will use it to control
every corner of the world.
and we would all
become his slaves.
The Prophecy
says that the Seeker
will use the Book
in his quest to defeat Rahl.
Read it.
Um. maybe this Seeker you're
looking for knows this language.
but I don't.
Try.
(scoffs)
( suspenseful theme playing)
"The truth
"of the words
"of The Book of Counted Shadows
can only be ensured
by a Confessor."
How...?
Because you are the true Seeker.
( dramatic theme playing)
FANE:
That's a good blade
you've got there.
I could use a tool like that.
Where did you get it?
Trader from down south.
(chuckles)
FANE:
What is it?
Richard's trail ends here.
We'll split up.
Cover more ground.
Hyah!
KAHLAN:
Give him the Sword.
Name him.
What sword?
(gasps)
( dramatic theme playing)
This is the Sword of Truth.
ZEDD:
In anyone else's hands.
this is just a piece of steel.
But in the Seeker's hands.
bestows the power to fight evil.
And with it
you will kill Darken Rahl.
I'm not killing anybody.
I don't even know either of you.
For all I know.
this is some kind of trick.
I'm not a Seeker.
I don't want any book.
or any sword.
Calm down. my boy.
I'm not your boy.
My father is George Cypher.
and if any of this were true.
he'd have told me.
Now. get out of my way.
Richard. wait.
ZEDD: Let him go.
What?
He needs to find
the truth for himself.
Until then. he cannot be named.
FANE:
Hyah!
(horse approaching)
Your First Councilor needs
more men on the North Hill.
He said I was to tell you
to join him there.
(horses galloping)
( dramatic theme playing)
Tell me where to find your son.
(grunts)
(whinnies)
(insects buzzing)
Ah.
( suspenseful theme playing)
(insects continue buzzing)
(grunting)
(whinnies)
(grunts)
( suspenseful theme playing)
(Richard grunts)
(whispering)
Don't make
a sound.
(Richard grunts softly)
(creature screeches)
(creature screeching)
(horse whinnying)
(grunting)
(creature screeching)
Ah. Ugh. No!
(screeches)
(squealing)
Ah!
(gasps)
(Kahlan sighs)
What was that thing?
A Gar.
It uses the blood flies
to sniff out its prey.
Apparently. D'Haran
soldiers weren't the only thing
that followed you
through the Boundary.
What did you do to it?
Wizard's fire.
Wasn't sure I had it in
me after all these years.
What are you doing?
Going to find my father
before something horrible
happens to him too.
ZEDD: We'll go together.
No.
Stay away from me. both of you.
KAHLAN:
He's got the Sword
and the Book.
Well. isn't that exactly
what you wanted?
( dramatic theme playing)
Hyah!
Dad!
I'll get you.
(gasps)
(George groaning)
Who did this?
The D'Haran.
Ranssyn Fane.
I'll take you to Zedd's.
No.
He has potions.
No. Fane is looking
for you there.
You can't go back to Zedd's.
Zedd told me...
He said you're not my father.
Of course I'm your father.
Then it was a lie.
No.
Every word he told you is true.
But I will always
be your father.
(groans)
( melancholy theme playing)
Dad?
(sobs)
(sniffs)
(horses approaching)
MICHAEL:
Richard.
We saw the smoke.
What happened?
He's dead.
(sighs)
Did the witch make you do this?
Michael. you can't
possibly believe...
I don't know what to believe!
It was Ranssyn Fane.
MICHAEL: No.
He's with Chase looking for you.
Well. he came back!
That sword.
Where did you get it?
Richard. where have you been?
Michael. he murdered our father.
Not our father.
My father.
You knew.
Why didn't you tell me?
Because he made me
swear that I never would.
But now he's dead.
Did he tell you
where I came from?
No.
But I'm beginning to wonder.
And until I find out
you're not going anywhere.
Take him.
Stay back!
Witchcraft.
Fane was right.
( action theme playing)
RICHARD:
Hyah!
( dramatic theme playing)
(horse whinnies)
Where are you going
in such a hurry. boy?
I'm going back to your
house to find Fane.
He murdered my father.
(sighs)
I am so sorry.
Get out of my way.
I understand your pain.
Richard Cypher. you were
meant for more than revenge.
RICHARD:
You think I care what you say.
old man?
I'm going to kill him!
KAHLAN:
And if you fail.
and he kills you?
You said this Sword would
give me the power to fight evil.
Yes. In the service
of freedom and justice.
not your own rage.
You're not ready
to use the Sword.
I said get out of my way!
Come on!
(growls)
( exciting theme playing)
(board creaks)
(bottle clatters)
(chickens clucking)
(yells)
FANE:
Tell me where the witch is
or I'll run you through.
I'll never help you.
I don't know what lies
that witch
has put into your head.
but ask yourself:
Are you really prepared to die
for someone you don't even know?
She didn't kill my father.
You did.
( dramatic theme playing)
(both grunting)
(roars)
Good!
(both grunting)
(clattering)
(groans)
Beg for your life. boy!
Do it!
(groans)
Just like your father did.
(Richard groans)
FANE:
The Book.
You brought me the Book.
(chuckles)
No.
( exciting theme playing)
FANE:
Hyah!
No!
(panting)
( dramatic theme playing)
Fane!
I'm gonna kill you!
(panting)
You're gonna die!
KAHLAN:
Richard!
The Book.
Fane has it.
(Richard panting)
Then we failed.
No. I failed.
(Richard sighs)
Not yet.
Fane still has
to cross the Boundary
to get the Book to Rahl.
We can still stop him.
Don't you get it?
I'm not what you want me to be.
Maybe all those years ago
you saved the wrong child.
(Richard panting)
( melancholy theme playing)
No.
You are the true Seeker.
You have a great destiny
ahead of you. Richard Cypher.
if you're willing to accept it.
In this life. we cannot
go back. Only forward.
But I've lost everything.
ZEDD:
Not everything.
You have me.
And Kahlan.
And if you stop Rahl.
then your father
and Kahlan's sister
won't have died for nothing.
Teach me.
(hand pats shoulder)
Richard Cypher.
Will you accept
the name of the Seeker?
I will.
( dramatic theme playing)
Then I.
First Wizard
Zeddicus Zu'l Zorander
so name you.
( exciting theme playing)
(thunder crashing)
(gasps)
(yells)
(panting)
Lord Rahl?
What is it?
What's wrong?
The Seeker.
He lives.
( main theme playing)